- [Instructor] The Java cryptography architecture
is really the heart and soul of Java encryption,
decryption, hashing, secure random, and a myriad
of other engines that allow us to do cryptographic functions
with the Java programming language.
Like much of Java, it provides a standard API.
Now it's designed to allow JRE providers
to create their own implementation
of the architecture itself.
Essentially, the architecture provides the engines
and the API, and each individual JRE provider
can create their own specific implementation
based on the algorithms that they wish to support.
Again, it provides a standard engine API
of supported operations, and this is key
when you start dealing with multiple providers at once,
because each provider may implement different operations
but all of them conform to the same API.
The provider structure, or SPI, as this entails
within Java allows each provider to be on the class path
at the same time.
Again, JCA provides pure API, and the various
implementations or providers provide
their specific algorithms.
Providers can vary on the algorithms that they support.
They can support the same or different algorithms
and sometimes they do that at the same time.
Providers vary by JRE vendor as well,
and there's also third-party providers
that you may get exposed to.
Now, I just kind of want to give a structure
of how the JCA works with your application code.
So as a developer, you're writing an application
in which you want to do cryptographic functions.
So you consume the API of the JCA.
During runtime, the JRE that is actually executing
your byte code has one or more providers
that provide the implementation that the JCA APIs expose.
And as such, the developer does not necessarily
need to know the provider that is providing the algorithm.
They simply need to know that that algorithm exists
on the class path at runtime.